Create websocket-login.md (#203)
decentraland/adr: content/ADR-203-social-ws-login.md

- With the connection open, the client can send messages as desired without having to send the token again.

The native browser client does not allow headers to be added when creating a websocket connection. Therefore, the proposed solution is to use cookies:

- The client obtains the token through the social service HTTP endpoint `/login`, where the response includes the header `Set-Cookie: friendships-Authorization=<Token>; Domain=social.decentraland.org`.
- Then, when the client initializes the websocket, since the cookie is configured, the header `Cookie: friendships-Authorization=<Token>` is sent, and the server validates the token and obtains the user_id for the entire connection.
Example of proto file:

```proto
service FriendshipsService {
  rpc GetFriends(google.protobuf.Empty) returns (stream Users) {}
}
```

#### Solution 4: Advantages

- Sends the request to Redis/Synapse only once
- Does not allow more than one connection per user (prevents simple DOS)
- No need to send the token as part of the message

#### Solution 4: Disadvantages

> - The client must support cookies or be able to send the authorization header.

Reviewer: There is currently so much struggle while mixing cookies and websockets. It is not a straight forward implementation in _most_ languages.

Besides the ergonomics of getting cookies to work, I think setting cookies is something very web 1.0 for native public-key applications like Decentraland. I'd like to propose the ws-comms authentication mechanism for the WS connection. It is implemented in `bff`, `ws-room-service` and `mini-comms` repositories. 

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  client-->>server: open ws
  server-->>client: pleaseSignChallenge(challengeText=randomString())
  client-->>server: signedChallenge(result=sign(challengeText))
  server-->>server: authenticate, authorize
  server-->>server: load modules based on the permissions
  server-->>client: welcomeMessages(avalableModulesList)
```

The messages are simple and straight forward to implement, and the solution without cookies adds an extra layer of security against session spoofing

[BFF proto definitions](https://github.com/decentraland/protocol/blob/main/proto/decentraland/bff/authentication_service.proto#L24-L27)

```protobuf
syntax = "proto3";
package decentraland.bff;

message GetChallengeRequest {
  string address = 1;
}

message GetChallengeResponse {
  string challenge_to_sign = 1;
  bool already_connected = 2;
}

message SignedChallenge {
  string auth_chain_json = 1;
}

message WelcomePeerInformation {
  string peer_id = 1;

  // list of available modules in this BFF
  repeated string available_modules = 2;
}

service BffAuthenticationService {
  rpc GetChallenge(GetChallengeRequest) returns (GetChallengeResponse) {}
  rpc Authenticate(SignedChallenge) returns (WelcomePeerInformation) {}
}
```

The tests are also super straight forward https://github.com/decentraland/explorer-bff/blob/4352737ca24a0c590387fba4b46da297408e899a/test/integration/rpc.spec.ts#L18-L31

This has a clear advantage of not needing to store a second token, only making use of the already available auth chain to authenticate the users. It will also enable interoperability with the [scoped permissions for auth chains](https://github.com/decentraland/adr/pull/162/files)

---
layout: adr
adr: 203
title: Authentication Mechanism for Friendship WebSocket Service
date: 2023-03-31
status: Draft
type: RFC
spdx-license: CC0-1.0
authors:

- Julieta11
- agusaldasoro
- lauti7
- guidota
- 2fd
- kuruk-mm

---

> ## Abstract
> 
> This document contains the analysis of different solutions for authenticating a client and managing the token required for accessing the FriendshipsService. Each solution will be evaluated based on its pros and cons, including aspects such as scalability, security, and complexity.
> 
> This is an exhaustive analysis for the Authentication section of [Social Service M2](/adr/ADR-189).
> 

Author: ```suggestion
## Abstract

This document contains the analysis of different solutions for authenticating a client and managing the token required for accessing the FriendshipsService. Each solution will be evaluated based on its pros and cons, including aspects such as scalability, security, and complexity.

This is an exhaustive analysis of the Authentication section of [Social Service M2](/adr/ADR-189).

```

To send the token, this solution proposes to expand the current `.proto` definition with a mandatory login message that must be sent as the first message when establishing a WebSocket connection. The client sends its token in this message, and the service validates it against Synapse to obtain the corresponding `user_id`. This `user_id` remains the same throughout the connection for all subsequent messages, taking advantage of the established WebSocket connection.

Example of proto file:

```proto
service FriendshipsService {
  rpc Login(Token) returns (google.protobuf.Empty) {}
  rpc GetFriends(google.protobuf.Empty) returns (stream Users) {}
}
```

#### Solution 1: Advantages

- Takes advantage of the existing state and connection (establishes a relation one to one from connection to user, anyway this have some drawbacks explained in the disadvantages section).
- Saves sending the token in the payload for each message (only a few bytes), avoiding the need to fetch it from Redis.
- If a new connection with the same token/user_id arrives, the previous connection can be closed. This is a simple way to avoid DoS.

#### Solution 1: Disadvantages

> - The information is stored in memory, which may be a replication of what is in Redis.
> - [dcl-rpc](https://github.com/decentraland/rpc-rust) needs to be expanded to allow connection identification and specific information storage. Currently, a global context is stored for the entire service, but a way to identify the client (there is no IP address or socket, only user_id) needs to be found. Additionally, `dcl-rpc` currently does not expose the connection because it is abstracted.
> - Client-side logic is more complex, as it must ensure that the first message sent is the login message.
> - As the service has a state, then it makes more complex to scale horizontally, as a new login is required when reconnecting with another node, even using the same token.
> - Websockets support automatic reconnection, in this case if the server restarts and loses the memory state and reconnects to the user, then the login information will be lost.

Author: ```suggestion
- The information is stored in memory, which may be a replication of what is in Redis.
- [dcl-rpc](https://github.com/decentraland/rpc-rust) needs to be expanded to allow connection identification and specific information storage. Currently, a global context is stored for the entire service, but a way to identify the client (there is no IP address or socket, only user_id) needs to be found. Additionally, `dcl-rpc` currently does not expose the connection because it is abstracted.
- Client-side logic is more complex, as it must ensure that the first message sent is the login message.
- As the service has a state, then it makes it more complex to scale horizontally, as a new login is required when reconnecting with another node, even using the same token.
- Websockets support automatic reconnection, in this case, if the server restarts and loses the memory state and reconnects to the user, then the login information will be lost.
```

---
layout: adr
adr: 203
title: Authentication Mechanism for Friendship WebSocket Service
date: 2023-03-31

> status: Draft

Reviewer 2: Commenting to point out the status. I'm not sure which one is correct.

One of the most straightforward solutions to replace in the future is the `2.c: include the token on each message` solution. Since that solution is minimally intrusive, the implementation cost is low, and there is no cost associated with its removal.

Ideally, the solution should follow an upgrade format initiated by the client, whereby the server asks the client the credentials like AuthChain or the Authentication Token. If the message requesting the token is not received, the service terminates the communication, similar to the HTTP or TLS handshake. Solutions within this category include:
- `2.a: Use a login message`
- `2.b: the login message is sent by the Server`
- `3: The Client logins against the service`

Among those solutions, the benefit of implementing the third one is that the Synapse Token is opaque to the client, making it something internal that can be removed in the future if Synapse dependency is removed. Anyway, the cost of implementing that solution today implies many changes in new dcl libraries like `rpc-rust` and `decentraland-crypto-rust` which may imply a risk for a project as big as Social Service M2 is.

> For the Scope of the Social Service M2 Project, the decition is to implement the `2.c` solution, which will handle the authentication individually on each message, as it is the cheaper the implement and the focus and effort is in the robustness and availability of a new Websocket Server implemented in Rust that is thought to replace the dependency to Synapse when managing friendships and request friendships. The `2.c` solution does not represent any security risk or concern, as the Synapse Token is already stored on the local storage of the client, and as it will be validated on every message the behaviour will be analogue on what exists today.

Author: ```suggestion
For the Scope of the Social Service M2 Project, the decision is to implement the `2.c` solution, which will handle the authentication individually on each message, as it is cheaper the implement and the focus and effort is in the robustness and availability of a new WebSocket Server implemented in Rust that is thought to replace the dependency to Synapse when managing friendships and request friendships. The `2.c` solution does not represent any security risk or concern, as the Synapse Token is already stored on the local storage of the client, and as it will be validated on every message the behavior will be analog to what exists today.
```

> In this line, the idea is to revist this solution after Social Service M2 is released and then decide if a better Authentication management can be done (like implementing the `3` solution). So, the `.proto` definition used to manage the friendships in the Social Service for M2 is for internal use only, and the release will be marked as beta.

Author: ```suggestion
In this line, the idea is to revise this solution after Social Service M2 is released and then decide if better Authentication management can be done (like implementing the `3` solution). So, the `.proto` definition used to manage the friendships in the Social Service for M2 is for internal use only, and the release will be marked as beta.
```
